README.md, before:

## Angular Template Structure (how to work with the template):

questions @ joscha sattler -> j.sattler@28apps.de, joscha.sattler@web.de

## Style (Scss): global scss files are in the assets/scss folder :

- use _mixins.scss for custom global utility classes (directly usable as html class, no imports needed)
- use _colors.scss for repeating color values -> import them into the styles.scss as css variables
- use _variables.scss for custom repeating scss values
- Used UI Library: TAIGA UI: https://taiga-ui.dev/getting-started
  - to change TAIGA UI colors / variables use the styles.scss (there are examples)

## @media queries and breakpoints src/assets/variables

- values for common device breakpoints are located here
- globally usable @media queries for desktop, laptop, tablet and mobile are predefined and ready to be used
  - implement @use "index" as *; in the component.scss where the media query mixin should be used.

#### Example

```css
@use "index" as *;

/*desktop-view >> default */
.grid {
  grid-template-columns: 2fr 5fr;
}

/* tablet-view and below using the @media query mixin */
@include tablet-view {
  .grid {
    grid-template-columns: 1fr;
  }
}
```

## Components:

- Reusable components: src/app/shared --> Base components that can be reused with different data / style via @Input() / @Output()

- Components: src/app/components --> A view is split into different component blocks, here are the different component blocks for the view (uses reusable components)

- Views / Pages src/app/views --> Views use the component blocks to display the full UI. It is used as a kind of "Layout-Component" for the different component blocks and are use in the routing

## Translate Table header:

example:

````

// enter i18n keys here
headers = signal<string[]>(['general.createdAt', 'general.name']);

override ngOnInit() {
  super.ngOnInit();
  
  // it translates the header keys in the parent component. Nothing else needed
  super.translateHeaders(this.headers);
}
````

## Customizable table columns in parent component, example:

TS:

```
  @Input({ required: true }) tenants$: Observable<Tenant[]> | undefined;
  headers = signal<string[]>(['Name']);
  columns = signal<string[]>(['name']);
```

HTML: **important:** the names inside  [cellTemplatesMap] have to match the ng-template #name"

```angular17html
@if (tenants$ | async) {
  <app-base-table-async
    [tableData$]="tenants$!"
    (rowClickEvent)="rowClicked($event)"
    [headers]="headers()"
    [columns]="columns()"
    [cellTemplatesMap]="{name}"
  />

  <!-- customized column, value = current name value, object = full object (tenant) -->
  <ng-template #name let-value let-object="object">
    {{ value }} {{ object }}
    <app-delete-icon/>
  </ng-template>
}
```

## Services:

API: src/app/api

- the api-folder contains api-services responsible for any http request

Helper services: src/app/services

- the services folder contains all services which are used for centralized and reusable methods + data

## Type definition:

Typescript classes >  src/app/other/models

Types (uses type not interfaces, same syntax except "=" before {}) >  src/app/types

Enums > src/app/other/enums

## Table refresh class: ComponentClass "extends TableRefresherComponent<Model>"

Used to automatically refresh the table data after a http request (POST, PATCH, DELETE)

located at: src/app/shared/table-refresher

````
  // Method must be implemented in each derived component
  abstract setTableRefreshService(): any;

  // Method must be implemented in each derived component
  abstract setTableRefreshMethodName(): string;

  // Optional method to override in derived components for additional parameters
  setAdditionalParams(): any {
    return null;
  }
````

Example usage in a table component:

````ts
export class TenantTableComponent extends TableRefresherComponent<Tenant> {
  setTableRefreshService() {
    return this.tenantService;
  }

  setTableRefreshMethodName() {
    return 'getAllTenants';
  }
}
````

## Frontend table search

This triggers a getAllMethod with a param called search eg: <br />
/customers?search=max

````angular2html
<!-- search component -->
<app-base-search [serice]="userService"/>

<!-- table adjustment (example user) -->
<app-base-table-async [search$]="userService.search$">
````

## Frontend table date search

This triggers a getAllMethod with a param called searchDate eg: <br />
/customers?searchDate=2024-06-12T00:00:00.000Z

````angular17html
<!-- search component -->
<app-base-search-date [service]="customerService"/>

<!-- table adjustment (example customer) -->
<app-base-table-async [searchDate$]="customerService.searchDate$"/>
````

## How to use base-delete-dialog component

````ts

// TYPE
export type DeleteContextData = {
  model: any; // e.g. user 
  service: any; // e.g. userService
  deleteMethod: string; // e.g. deleteUserById
};

// How to in user.component.ts
function openDeleteDialog(user: User) {
  const deleteContextData: DeleteContextData = {
    deleteMethod: 'deleteUserById',
    model: user,
    service: this.userService,
  };

  this.dialogService.openDialog(BaseDeleteDialogComponent, deleteContextData);
}
````

### TODO: how to use general Dialogs: example User

## Development server

Run `ng serve` for a dev server. Navigate to `http://localhost:4200/`. The application will automatically reload if you change any of the source files.

Commit message:

Refactor code to use signals instead of BehaviorSubjects
In this update, we made a comprehensive change in the code to use signals instead of BehaviorSubjects, notably reflecting in tenant, user, and customer table components. This refactor not only simplifies data flow but also leads to improved efficiency. Also, additional instructions were added to the README for using the base-delete-dialog component. This shift effectively modifies the way we handle data flow and sets the ground for more maintainable and understandable code in the long run.

README.md, after:

## Angular Template Structure (how to work with the template):

questions @ joscha sattler -> j.sattler@28apps.de, joscha.sattler@web.de

## Style (Scss): global scss files are in the assets/scss folder :

- use _mixins.scss for custom global utility classes (directly usable as html class, no imports needed)
- use _colors.scss for repeating color values -> import them into the styles.scss as css variables
- use _variables.scss for custom repeating scss values
- Used UI Library: TAIGA UI: https://taiga-ui.dev/getting-started
  - to change TAIGA UI colors / variables use the styles.scss (there are examples)

## @media queries and breakpoints src/assets/variables

- values for common device breakpoints are located here
- globally usable @media queries for desktop, laptop, tablet and mobile are predefined and ready to be used
  - implement @use "index" as *; in the component.scss where the media query mixin should be used.

#### Example

```css
@use "index" as *;

/*desktop-view >> default */
.grid {
  grid-template-columns: 2fr 5fr;
}

/* tablet-view and below using the @media query mixin */
@include tablet-view {
  .grid {
    grid-template-columns: 1fr;
  }
}
```

## Components:

- Reusable components: src/app/shared --> Base components that can be reused with different data / style via @Input() / @Output()

- Components: src/app/components --> A view is split into different component blocks, here are the different component blocks for the view (uses reusable components)

- Views / Pages src/app/views --> Views use the component blocks to display the full UI. It is used as a kind of "Layout-Component" for the different component blocks and are use in the routing

## Translate Table header:

example:

````

// enter i18n keys here
headers = signal<string[]>(['general.createdAt', 'general.name']);

override ngOnInit() {
  super.ngOnInit();
  
  // it translates the header keys in the parent component. Nothing else needed
  super.translateHeaders(this.headers);
}
````

## Customizable table columns in parent component, example:

TS:

```
  @Input({ required: true }) tenants$: Observable<Tenant[]> | undefined;
  headers = signal<string[]>(['Name']);
  columns = signal<string[]>(['name']);
```

HTML: **important:** the names inside  [cellTemplatesMap] have to match the ng-template #name"

```angular17html
@if (tenants$ | async) {
  <app-base-table-async
    [tableData$]="tenants$!"
    (rowClickEvent)="rowClicked($event)"
    [headers]="headers()"
    [columns]="columns()"
    [cellTemplatesMap]="{name}"
  />

  <!-- customized column, value = current name value, object = full object (tenant) -->
  <ng-template #name let-value let-object="object">
    {{ value }} {{ object }}
    <app-delete-icon/>
  </ng-template>
}
```

## Services:

API: src/app/api

- the api-folder contains api-services responsible for any http request

Helper services: src/app/services

- the services folder contains all services which are used for centralized and reusable methods + data

## Type definition:

Typescript classes >  src/app/other/models

Types (uses type not interfaces, same syntax except "=" before {}) >  src/app/types

Enums > src/app/other/enums

## Table refresh class: ComponentClass "extends TableRefresherComponent<Model>"

Used to automatically refresh the table data after a http request (POST, PATCH, DELETE)

located at: src/app/shared/table-refresher

````
  // Method must be implemented in each derived component
  abstract setTableRefreshService(): any;

  // Method must be implemented in each derived component
  abstract setTableRefreshMethodName(): string;

  // Optional method to override in derived components for additional parameters
  setAdditionalParams(): any {
    return null;
  }
````

Example usage in a table component:

````ts
export class TenantTableComponent extends TableRefresherComponent<Tenant> {
  setTableRefreshService() {
    return this.tenantService;
  }

  setTableRefreshMethodName() {
    return 'getAllTenants';
  }
}
````

## Frontend table search

This triggers a getAllMethod with a param called search eg: <br />
/customers?search=max

````angular2html
<!-- search component -->
<app-base-search [serice]="userService"/>

<!-- table adjustment (example user) -->
<app-base-table-async [search$]="userService.search$">
````

## Frontend table date search

This triggers a getAllMethod with a param called searchDate eg: <br />
/customers?searchDate=2024-06-12T00:00:00.000Z

````angular17html
<!-- search component -->
<app-base-search-date [service]="customerService"/>

<!-- table adjustment (example customer) -->
<app-base-table-async [searchDate$]="customerService.searchDate$"/>
````

## How to use base-delete-dialog component

1. create a data object for the base-delete-dialog with all needed values
2. call the openDialog with the BaseDeleteDialogComponent and the created data object

````ts

// TYPE
export type DeleteContextData = {
  model: any; // e.g. user 
  service: any; // e.g. userService
  deleteMethod: string; // e.g. deleteUserById
};

// How to in user.component.ts
function openDeleteDialog(user: User) {
  const deleteContextData: DeleteContextData = {
    deleteMethod: 'deleteUserById',
    model: user,
    service: this.userService,
  };

  this.dialogService.openDialog(BaseDeleteDialogComponent, deleteContextData);
}
````

that's it, deleting + updating (table) is now fully functional

### TODO: how to use general Dialogs: example User

## Development server

Run `ng serve` for a dev server. Navigate to `http://localhost:4200/`. The application will automatically reload if you change any of the source files.
